# Week7 Reading Response —— Thea(Sang)

**Response to Shoshana Zuboff**

In “Surveillance Capitalism”, our personal experience and  behaviour data are the raw materials for company to predict future as well as set their economic goals. The prediction and actions based on our data will influence our behaviours, or more seriously, just as Zuboff mentioned in the videos, destroy our autonomy, critical thoughts and internal personal world. “Surveillance Capitalism” is a horrifying concept but it is also tightly related to the reality. Whatever the scandal of Facebook or the data disclosure of Weibo just a week ago all demonstrate how easily our privacy can flow and be traded in the market just like a commodity.
Even more worrying is that we are become numb and ignorance when facing the exploitation of privacy, just like hundreds ago, the labours worked in factory were used to be exploitation. Although we talk a lot about privacy, I still easily choose “I agree” without reading protocols when registering accounts.
Besides, the “inequality of knowledge” leads by “Surveillance Capitalism” is also noticeable. In the digital era, knowledge, information and data become the new forms of capital and lead to further differentiate between different people. The company has more economic power have more ability to access knowledge, and dominant of knowledge will help to generate more profits. Different from simple profits accumulation, the dominant of knowledge means more about control, which is even profound but huge. Do we actively search what we want to see? Or we just passively accept the information that the dominant what us to see even though we seem to do the action of active searching?
Zuboff claims that the use of data should base on technological logic but not the economic logic. I am considering whether it is practical in reality. “Collecting data under our control” sounds too ideal.
