# Week12 Reading Response —— Thea(Sang)

In the scandal of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, it is obvious that big data is not only applied in the business area for economic purpose but also enters the political areas. If the “illegally acquisition and usage” cannot be effectively regulated, personal data will quickly influence important areas such as politics, religions, and cultures. Different from individuals make their own decisions autonomously, they are actually domesticated and guided by relevant stakeholders. It sounds ridiculous and terrifying to fabric beliefs for people, but it is achievable not only because of the fast development of arithmetic and programs, information convergence and monopoly but also because of its collaborations with a mature and deeper academic study such as psychology, sociology, and humanity. In the case of Cambridge Analytica, by analyzing users' behavior patterns, personality traits, value orientations, and growth experiences based on Facebook data, the company can push targeted messages and campaign advisement to influence the voting behaviors of voters. Individuals become tools in the wars between different political camps.

However, from my own perspective, it is really hard to totally avoid illegally acquisition and usage only depends on the efforts of the big-tech company. The Facebook company or other big-tech companies, such as Tencent, Alibaba in China, their business profits model largely relies on big data. For example, they make profits by selling their data to program developers and advertisers. At the same time, it is hard for them to guarantee the data, and information will not flow into the third party with ulterior motives. The limited business model has determined the flow and diffusion of data as well as illegally acquisition and usage driven by interests. Thus, regulation and laws should consider the range of the whole market. It is a great challenge for the government and big-tech companies.

There is no strict line between data protection and data usage. In the era of the internet, personal privacy has already been a relative concept. The co-founder of Internet giant Tencent, Pony Ma once said, if the data of users is over-protected, some personalized design that can optimize the user experience and improves efficiency cannot be implemented. However, if the excessive emphasis is placed on algorithm and personalization, user privacy may be violated. I also agree with this idea because data is a valuable resource and tool to make our life easier. Mentioned in Surveillant Capitalism, using data based on technological logic rather than economic, political logic is important. The lines between data protection and data usage also need much more consideration and balance.
