# Week8 Reading Response —— Thea(Sang)

**Response to “Radio Lab Right to be forgotten”**

The dilemmas about “right to be forgotten” is that if the internet permanently keeps the personal information about their previous mistakes which can be found easily, it may profoundly and deeply influence the life of the individual. But if delete this news or information, it definitely destroys the integrity of the information archive and may also mess up the information.
Besides, it is really hard to determine whether the news or articles or information should be deleted or kept. Firstly, there are no general rules to directly evaluates the person and his mistakes. For example, theft. Different amounts of money, different ages of the thief and different positions of thief need different considerations. That means each case should be examined individually and this is a huge work. Secondly, the final result will largely be influenced by the experience, background and cultural context of the reviewer. Deciding whether the information should be deleted or kept is actually making the value judgment, which naturally contains a human basis. Thirdly, this is not the work about one website or one search engine. If one article is determined to be deleted in one website and kept in another, it must cause the mass of information and recognition.
How much the value an article had, and whether or not it was serving a public good? This is the question put forward in the podcast. It is so difficult to give a perfect answer. Personally, it might be more important to coexist with this previous information. For example, compared with deleting the article so the employer cannot see the previous mistake, maybe set some rules of job selections is more practical. Or the website or search engine can change the orders of information by some rule.
Although it is a hard task for this task, I think there is some general rule during this experiment. The composition of the reviewer should be as diversified as possible. Besides, for those outdated, inaccurate and irrelevant information should be quickly dealt with. For example, with the progress and transformation of laws, rules, and regulations, previous mistakes may have different evolution in the current day.

**Response to "The Daily The End of Privacy as we know it?"**

The system like ClearView is a double-edged sword. ClearView, the company mentioned in The New York Time helps a lot in law enforcement. It can identify the face of suspects more quickly and more accurately than any other applications because of its huge database. But from another perspective, ClearView is also dangerous. If the system is sold to all the customers, everyone will have power to search the privacy of other people at any time and will gain considerable results.
Thus, how to use the application become important. Personally, if it is strictly used and regulated by the governments and in the areas of public security, it benefits the whole society. However, the real situation can never be so ideal. This powerful system contains too much potential profits. It is be appealing for people to take the advantage of it, especially those who has more power may gain more based on this system.
The technology of scraping has been applied in many areas. For individual purpose, some people will use scraped data to develop their research projects. I think it goes back to the questions that we have discussed in previous class about the rights of using data. It is a complex question. Different from collecting data of individuals in one specific at one specific moment, the scraping makes it possible to grasp the whole life data about the people. Although it does not relate to any commercial purpose, it still related to the individual privacy. I think the application of the technology of scraping or the system based on technology need carefully regulation and control.
