# Week1 Reading Response —— Thea(Sang)

**Introduction and Chapter 2
Why does Bowker say "'Raw data is both and oxymoron and a bad idea'" ? (pp. 663)**

Data remains people a mistaken belief that it is objective and people actually have the tendency to believe the “objectivity” of data and rely more on data during the research. However, the objectivity of data is invalidating. Whatever the selections of measuring subjects, the input of origin data or the interpretation of obtained data is based on subjective choices, operation, and analysis. The errors and limitations of raw data are also always existing systematically, methodologically or chronically. Besides, raw data itself does not mean a lot without context and it may even lead to problematic results and profound influence without matching with proper context.  With the development of Big Data, quantitative science gets a higher position while quantifies science which usually takes more time and seems to be more subjective is marginalized.  The over-emphasize or dependence of data may further enlarge the pride and prejudice of users and researchers. Raw data is an oxymoron as its superficial objectivity and its inner subjectivity and possible bias as well as errors. At the same time, the deceptive properties of raw data and inappropriate management of raw data jointly lead to biased results. Just as Bowker says, “data should be cooked with care” (pp.663). Without caution and reason, it is easy for people to miss the true value of data and be beguiled into the trap of data.


**Section 1 (pp. 665)
What could be meant by the quote "'accounting tools [...] do not simply aid the measurement of economic activity, they shape the reality they measure'"?**

According to Latour, “change the instruments, and you will change the entire social theory that goes with them” (p.9). It implicates that the research methods can profoundly influence people’s thinking patterns, epistemology view as well as a shared value which forms our behaviors in everyday life. With the development of Big Data, quantitative science gets a higher position and more and more events presented by data. Gradually, people get used to viewing the world quantitatively and behave follow the logic of data. For example, YouTube automatically recommends users the videos with high click rate and users watch these popular videos which also add the click volume of the videos. The quotation, “accounting tools [...] does not simply aid the measurement of economic activity, they shape the reality they measure” (pp.12-13) follow the same logic. We use accounting to learn the economy. And at the same time, the result we get from these accounting tools profoundly influence our thinking patterns and change our economic behaviors.


**Section 3 and 4 (pp. 668)
In which way is Twitter data limited?**

As a sample, Twitter data is not rigorous. The data of each account and each user is not equivalent. Users have their uniqueness which may lead to different behaviors in Twitter when facing different trigger events. Besides, the resource of data is uncertain because of some restrictions on certain data. Thus, it hard for Titter data to present or predict public rigorously. When the contents and sizes of data are all invalid, the results that driven by Twitter data are also invalid. Besides, data is meaningless if taking out of context. Data have different weights in different contexts. How to find proper Twitter data including data subjects and sizes as well as categories for research subjects is a difficult task. Without a tight connection between sample and research subjects, any result is lame and may mislead the public.


**Section 5 (pp. 671)
If you don't need to login to obtain certain data, then it is public and free to use. Or isn't it? Please share your opinion.**

If I do not need to login to obtain certain data, I think it is public data that everyone can easily approach but the use of data need regulation. Obviously, the vicious use of data is forbidden by most of the laws or regulations, and commercial use of data without permission is also commonly thought immoral and illegal. But this question seems to be more on the moral level. For example, it is hard to say whether academic research can use these public data. On the one hand, the obtain of data has no offense to the law as it can be approached by everyone. By the way, these kinds of researches usually need a large amount of data. Thus, it is impossible for data users to get permission from each data subject. On the other hand, some academic research seems to have no relations with self-interests. But even for this kind of data using, I still think it should be regulated. I strongly agree with the clauses in The (UK) Data Protection Act 1998. For example, “data should be obtained only for one or more specified and lawful purposes”, “adequate, relevant and not exceeding the purposes why they are processed”, “accurate and kept up to date” … these clauses can be applied in general situations. In short, personally, data subjects have the right for the final explanations of their personal data and they have the right to refuse data users and seek compensation for damage.  


**Section 6
No prompts here, but a very well written chapter that is relevant to everything we will be talking about this semester. Please enjoy.**

Big Data is widely applied in various applications, such as Taobao and Weibo. Taobao recommends users what they frequently visit and Weibo shows relevant information after users give a like to one piece of Weibo. It seems that Big Data becomes more humanization and largely improves the users' experience as well as further make more profits. In a sense, this is a win-win situation for both users and producers. But I doubt it. Personally, if everything is calculated by and determined by Big Data, both users and producers will be restricted. I want to borrow an idea from marketing. When it comes to creating pioneering or innovative products, in the stage of Idea Generation, market research is sometimes useless as consumers always do not know exactly what they want. Same for the users of Taobao and Weibo. They may have no chance to visit some products beyond their expectation but they want or the information out of their familiar range. And for the applications and platforms, they also lose some possibilities to make extra profit. Admittedly, Big Data makes our life easier. But whether it is really such a good thing or how should we carefully use them still need consideration.     
